Title: Messier Catalog Sketching Project Introduction

## Background
As a first post to my website, I thought I'd write a brief introduction to a project I'm working on for
2021. I've been interested in amateur astronmoy for quite a few years now. Over time, I've discovered
that I really enjoy sketching what I see at the eyepiece. Like most amateurs in the Northern Hemisphere,
I've spent a lot of my time at the eyepiece observing objects in
[the Messier Catalog](https://www.messier.seds.org/Messier.html). Carles Messier, a French astronomer
and comet hunter put the catalog together in the mid to late 1700s as a list of things that could be
confused for comets. As telescope technology improved, it has become clear that these objects are among
the very best [deep sky objects](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep-sky_object) in the northern skies.
Many of the most famous galaxies, nebulae, and star clusters are Messier objects, such as the Andromeda
Galaxy, the Orion Nebula, and the Pleiades.

For quite a while, I've thought it may be fun to try and sketch all 110 objects in the Messier catalog.
Over the years, I've done a few of them, but not with any overall plan or focus. I've observed a good
portion of the Messier catalog -- maybe 70 or 80 objects, but I haven't kept good track or spent much
time seeing details in most of them. Coming up to 2021, I realized that it would be surprisingly
feasible to observe them all in a single year, and even sketch all of them! So, I came up with a goal
for myself: I'd like to draw sketches at the eyepiece of all 110 Messier objects in the year 2021. If I
can't finish them all in a single year, I should try and finish them as soon as is feasible.

## Why Sketch?
I'm not an artist, but I've found that with care and effort I can get a reasonably close improession of
what I can see at the eyepiece. Even the most spectacular objects tend to lack color and seem like
little faint smudges in the eyepiece, especially when you compare them to the multitude of spectacular
photographs of them widely available today. But, with some patience and care, you can tease out some
truly gorgeous details. Sharing sketches of what I see at the eyepiece helps to share what deep sky
objects actually look like through a typical amateur telescope.

In addition to that, sketching at the eyepiece is a truly wonderful experience. It takes time, but
slowing down an observing session and paying really close attention to all the little details really
helps me enjoy what I'm seeing all the more. It makes me feel connected to what I'm seeing and is a
great way to document it. Sketching at the eyepiece has also helped train my eye to see much more detail
I'd never thought I'd see given my light-polluted, suburban skies. For me, it's helped to hone my skills
as an observer.

Sketching the Messier catalog will be an excellent project. Although most of the objects are pretty easy
targets, even from suburban skies, they are generally rich in details. Even though I've seen many of
them before, I haven't spent as much time trying to tease out all these details as I'd've liked to.
Because the catalog consists of a wide variety of objects, it should help improve my observation and
sketching skills even more.

## Equipment
My telescope is an Orion XT10i Dobsonian I've had for quite a few years. I use the stock 9x50 RACI
finderscope along with a Telrad. My eyepiece collection consists of 25, 20, and 15 mm Televue Plossls, a
10 mm Orion Plossl, and a 6.7 mm Explore Scientific 82&#xb0;. I'd like to eventually get a wider-field
eyepiece to better frame large objects like the Pleiades.

I do my sketches with pencil on a sketching form I print out on regular printer paper. It has a cirlce
4 inches in diameter to actually do the sketch in. I have blending stumps, an erasing shield, and a
kneadable eraser. I use a variable-brightness red light (I think from Celestron?) as a light source and
a clipboard to hold the paper. I scan them, invert them, and do a little cleanup in GIMP to digitize
them.

Although my telescope has digital setting circles, I've decided I'm going to manually locate everything.
Digital setting circles are really nice, but none of the Messier objects are particularly hard to find
and it's always worth working on my star-hopping skills. For a star atlas, I currently use the awesome
free [Triatlas](https://allans-stuff.com/triatlas/). I've got a printed copy of the A-set and print out
charts I need from the B-set on demand.
I sometimes make charts using [Cartes-du-Ciel](https://www.ap-i.net/skychart/en/start) as well.

## Location
I plan to do most of the sketches from my backyard in suburban Austin. It's far from a dark sky site --
on an average night with the naked eye, I can only see down to around magnitude 4.7. On a night with
really good transparency, I've seen as faint as 5.5, but only at the zenith with averted vision. On a
typical "good" night, I can see down to a tad fainter than magnitude 5. My light pollution is worst to
the east and northeast and best to the west. Unfortunately, my western and southern horizons have tall
trees that block most everything below about 30-35 degrees in elevation.

Because of the trees to my south, despite my location at around latitude 30, some of the Messier obejcts
that are further to the south will require me to set up somewhere with a better horizon. I can think of
a few spots nearby that may serve me well. Some of the objects with lower surface brightness, like the
Triangulum Galaxy (Messier 33) and the Pinwheel Galaxy (Messier 101) are quite difficult from my
backyard due to the light pollution. I've spotted both, but even though they show great detail from a
darker area, they show little to none from my backyard. I'd much prefer to sketch these objects from
somewhere with darker skies -- I'm thinking I'll do some trips out to state parks to our west like
Pedernales Falls, Enchanted Rock, or Colorado Bend. The skies in all three places are significantly
darker than in my backyard and will show a lot more.
